                                         Fixing Security Vulnerabilities with AI in OSS-Fuzz
                                         YUNTONG ZHANG, National University of Singapore
                                         JIAWEI WANG, National University of Singapore
arXiv:2411.03346v2 [cs.CR] 21 Nov 2024




                                         DOMINIC BERZIN, National University of Singapore
                                         MARTIN MIRCHEV, National University of Singapore
                                         DONGGE LIU, Google
                                         ABHISHEK ARYA, Google
                                         OLIVER CHANG, Google
                                         ABHIK ROYCHOUDHURY, National University of Singapore
                                         Critical open source software systems undergo significant validation in the form of lengthy fuzz campaigns.
                                         The fuzz campaigns typically conduct a biased random search over the domain of program inputs, to find inputs
                                         which crash the software system. Such fuzzing is useful to enhance the security of software systems in general
                                         since even closed source software may use open source components. Hence testing open source software
                                         is of paramount importance. Currently OSS-Fuzz is the most significant and widely used infrastructure for
                                         continuous validation of open source systems. Unfortunately even though OSS-Fuzz has identified more
                                         than 10,000 vulnerabilities across 1000 or more software projects, the detected vulnerabilities may remain
                                         unpatched, as vulnerability fixing is often manual in practice.
                                            In this work, we rely on the recent progress in Large Language Model (LLM) agents for autonomous
                                         program improvement including bug fixing. This is also the first such study with large-scale vulnerability
                                         fixing on real projects to the best of our knowledge. We customise the well-known AutoCodeRover agent for
                                         fixing security vulnerabilities. This is because LLM agents like AutoCodeRover fix bugs from issue descriptions,
                                         via code search. Instead for security patching, we rely on the test execution of the exploit input to extract
                                         code elements relevant to the fix. Our experience with the vulnerability data from OSS-Fuzz leads us to many
                                         observations. We note that having autonomy in the LLM agent is useful for successful security patching, as
                                         opposed to approaches like Agentless where the control flow is fixed. More importantly our findings show that
                                         we cannot measure quality of patches by code similarity of the patch with reference codes (as in CodeBLEU
                                         scores used in VulMaster), since patches with high CodeBLEU scores still fail to pass given the given exploit
                                         input. Our findings indicate that security patch correctness needs to consider dynamic attributes like test
                                         executions as opposed to relying of standard text/code similarity metrics.
                                         Additional Key Words and Phrases: Software security, Program repair, Large Language Model, OSS-Fuzz
                                         ACM Reference Format:
                                         Yuntong Zhang, Jiawei Wang, Dominic Berzin, Martin Mirchev, Dongge Liu, Abhishek Arya, Oliver Chang,
                                         and Abhik Roychoudhury. 2024. Fixing Security Vulnerabilities with AI in OSS-Fuzz. 1, 1 (November 2024),
                                         21 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/nnnnnnn.nnnnnnn

                                         Authors’ Contact Information: Yuntong Zhang, yuntong@comp.nus.edu.sg, National University of Singapore; Jiawei
                                         Wang, wangjw@comp.nus.edu.sg, National University of Singapore; Dominic Berzin, dominic.berzin@u.nus.edu, National
                                         University of Singapore; Martin Mirchev, mmirchev@comp.nus.edu.sg, National University of Singapore; Dongge Liu,
                                         donggeliu@google.com, Google; Abhishek Arya, aarya@google.com, Google; Oliver Chang, ochang@google.com, Google;
                                         Abhik Roychoudhury, abhik@comp.nus.edu.sg, National University of Singapore.

                                         Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee
                                         provided that copies are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the
                                         full citation on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the author(s) must be honored.
                                         Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires
                                         prior specific permission and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
                                         © 2024 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.
                                         ACM XXXX-XXXX/2024/11-ART
                                         https://doi.org/10.1145/nnnnnnn.nnnnnnn


                                                                                                            , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2024.
2                                                                                          Zhang et al.


1   Introduction
Security vulnerabilities are one of the major threats to modern software systems. Once exploited
by malicious attackers, security vulnerabilities can cause significant damage to the software and its
users, incurring financial loss, data breaches, and more. In 2023, 30,927 new Common Vulnerabilities
and Exposures (CVEs) are recorded by the National Vulnerability Database (NVD), and half of
these vulnerabilities were classified as high or critical severity [38]. The number of new CVEs has
increased by 17% compared to the previous year, underscoring the accelerated pace of vulnerability
detection and the critical need for timely remediation. The recent advancement in automatic
programming with generative AI could further exacerbate the security issues, since some parts of
the application code could come from Large Language Models (LLMs) with little security assurance.
   To safeguard the software systems, researchers and practitioners have made advances in both
vulnerability detection and remediation. To detect security vulnerabilities before they are discov-
ered/exploited by attackers, various techniques from static analysis [12, 36] to fuzzing [33, 44] have
been developed and also adopted in the industry. Static analysis techniques can be applied to detect
a wide range of vulnerabilities. However, they are known to report false-positive warnings since
they are often based on abstraction and conservative approximation of the program semantics [19].
Fuzzing, on the other hand, employs a biased random search in the program’s input space and
dynamically executes the program. The dynamic nature of fuzzing ensures that a reported bug is
a true positive. Fuzzing has been employed by major software companies to continuously scan
for vulnerabilities in their development process [8, 22]. Google’s OSS-Fuzz, announced in 2016,
provides continuous fuzzing for various core open-source software [2]. As of August 2023, OSS-Fuzz
has identified over 10,000 vulnerabilities across 1,000 projects [31].
   While vulnerability detection techniques like fuzzing have shown to be both mature and effective,
detection is only the first step in comprehensive software protection. A detected bug should be
patched as soon as possible to reduce the time of exposure and the risk of being exploited. A
previous study in 2021 has shown that the median time-to-fix (i.e. time from bug reporting to patch
verification) to be 5.3 days for bugs detected by OSS-Fuzz [9], and 10% of the reported bugs are not
fixed within the 90-day disclosure deadline. The rising number of detected vulnerabilities in recent
years may require developers to invest even more time and effort in manually patching them. There
is an urgent need for automated vulnerability remediation in continuous fuzzing pipelines to both
ease the developers’ workload and minimize the window of vulnerability exposure.
   Recent advancements in generative AI and LLM agents have shown promise in autonomous
vulnerability remediation in programs [35, 41, 43, 46]. These LLM agents are designed for general
software engineering tasks, including bug fixing and feature development. They operate in real-
world scenarios where tasks are described by users in natural language. Using the task description
and the software codebase as inputs, the agents generate code modification suggestions to fulfill
the specified requirements. Since repairing security vulnerabilities is a specialized software engi-
neering task, we hypothesize that with appropriate adaptation, general-purpose LLM agents for
software engineering can be repurposed for this task. These repurposed agents can potentially be
integrated into existing vulnerability detection pipelines such as fuzzing, where they can provide
the remediation after detection and complete the software protection cycle.
  CodeRover-S. In this paper, we present a large scale real-world study on using LLM agents for
security vulnerability repair. To enhance the realism of our effort, we use as dataset the OSS-Fuzz
projects, which seek to enhance the state of practice of open source security [31]. We repurposed
the open-source LLM agent AutoCodeRover [35, 46] to repair security vulnerabilities, and imple-
mented a version named CodeRover-S (i.e. AutoCodeRover for security). With the vulnerability
report and an exploit input produced by a fuzzing campaign, CodeRover-S autonomously generates

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2024.
Fixing Security Vulnerabilities with AI in OSS-Fuzz                                                            3


patches that fix the detected vulnerability. In the process of adapting LLM agents for vulnerability
repair, we identified that one of the main challenge was the insufficient information contained in
the auto-generated vulnerability report. Unlike human-written issue report for general software
engineering tasks, vulnerability reports are often auto-generated by the fuzzer and only contain
information like the bug type and crash stacktrace. To enrich the vulnerability report, we extract
dynamic call graph information from the exploit input found by fuzzing, which is then used to
augment the report generated by the fuzzer. In addition, we perform a type-based analysis at the
program locations identified as faulty by the agent, and use the additional type information to
improve the compilation rate of generated patches. With these adaptation, we built CodeRover-S
which can autonomously repair security vulnerabilities detected in a fuzzing pipeline.
   To evaluate the efficacy of CodeRover-S in a real-world setup, we conducted experiments on
real C/C++ vulnerabilities previously detected by OSS-Fuzz. Each detected vulnerability comes
with an exploit input that resulted in a crash from sanitizers (e.g. AddressSanitizer [16], Memo-
rySanitizer [17]), and the crash report generated by the sanitizer. Experiments on 588 real-world
vulnerabilities from a previously curated dataset [27] show that CodeRover-S can repair 52.4% of
these vulnerabilities by resolving the crash from the exploit input. We also comparatively study the
efficacy of other deep learning or LLM-based systems in this realistic vulnerability repair scenario.
Firstly, we apply a general-purpose LLM coding agent directly to the vulnerability repair setting
and observe a lower repair efficacy. Secondly, we evaluate the state-of-the-art deep learning based
vulnerability repair system VulMaster [47] in the OSS-Fuzz dataset. Existing deep learning based
vulnerability repair techniques often make strong assumptions such as the perfect fix location is
provided at either function- or line-level. This localization assumption is too strong for real-world
vulnerability repair, and we observe a low repair efficacy when they are used in a realistic repair
setup. Furthermore, current evaluation of vulnerability repair tools often focus on how closely the
generated patches match the developer’s patch, using metrics like exact match or similarity scores
such as BLEU [32] or CodeBLEU [34]. However, we find that these metrics may not accurately
reflect the true efficacy of the repairs. Therefore, it is important to assess vulnerability repair
systems on datasets with executable inputs in future research.
   In summary, our contributions are as follows:


    • We explore the feasibility of adapting general-purpose LLM programming agents for the
      repair of security vulnerabilities. We integrate call graph information and type-based analysis
      to provide richer context for LLM agent-based vulnerability repair, resulting in improved
      patch quality. Our approach is implemented as a new agent CodeRover-S which is specialized
      for security vulnerability repair.
    • We conduct an empirical study on the use of LLM agents to repair real-world security
      vulnerabilities identified by the industrial fuzzing service OSS-Fuzz. Our findings indicate that
      leveraging LLM agents for vulnerability remediation is a promising approach to complement
      existing detection pipelines and complete the software protection life cycle.
    • We present empirical evidence suggesting that similarity scores may not accurately mea-
      sure the effectiveness of vulnerability repair systems. To better evaluate learning-based
      vulnerability repair systems, future research should consider test-based validation methods.


2   The OSS-Fuzz Case Study
We discuss background on the OSS-Fuzz project and LLM agents for software engineering.


                                                      , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2024.
4                                                                                               Zhang et al.




                                               Median= 6
                                      12   6               18        Mean= 22.88




                                  0             10              20          30     40


Fig. 1. The boxplot represents the distribution of the number of bugs identified through fuzzing since 2016.
The median and mean values are highlighted in the diagram with some outlier data points are removed for
better presentation.


2.1    Overview of OSS-Fuzz project
Fuzz testing [5] is a popular method for detecting software security vulnerabilities, via a biased
random search over the domain of program inputs. Launched by Google in 2016, OSS-Fuzz is
an open-source initiative designed to continuously detect security vulnerabilities across more
than 1250 open-source software projects. The participating projects provide a fuzzing harness to
test specific API functions. OSS-Fuzz monitors the reliability of software projects’ repositories
by continuously testing them with a wide range of fuzzers (e.g. AFL++, libfuzzer, Hongfuzz) and
sanitizers (e.g. AddressSanitizer [16] and UndefinedBehaviorSanitizer [39]). It automatically reports
any crashes identified by the fuzzers and periodically verifies whether the project has resolved the
reported issues. As of September 2024, the OSS-Fuzz cluster has discovered over 12,000 bugs across
all projects. As shown in Figure 1, on average, OSS-Fuzz has reported 22 bugs for each participating
project, with some projects such as ffmpeg having over 400 bugs reported. In this work, we focus
on vulnerability remediation for C/C++ vulnerabilities detected by OSS-Fuzz.

2.2    LLM Agents for Software Engineering
Recent advances in Large Language Models’ (LLMs) context windows have significantly improved
their ability to process complex text sequences. This enhancement, combined with their capacity
for task planning, has led to the development of agent-based systems designed to tackle a broad
spectrum of problems. The model solves the task by decomposing it into smaller, manageable steps
that another model or tool can handle.
   One area where notable success was demonstrated is software engineering. Here, an agentic
system is provided with a natural language description of a task, such as issue descriptions in
software repositories like GitHub. The issue can describe a bug or new features to be added to
a codebase. To solve the issue, the LLM can invoke external tools, allowing it to interact with
the environment and gather more data before presenting a solution in the form of a patch. These
tools encompass actions fundamental to software engineering, such as Abstract Syntax Tree (AST)
search, e.g., getting a function or class definition, file system navigation, and executing commands
such as compiling the project or running the test suite. By integrating such tools, the agent can
analyze the codebase, invoke tools to gather additional information about the failure, and make
modifications while keeping track of the original task. Examples of state-of-the-art LLM Agents
are AutoCodeRover [46], SWE-Agent [43], and Agentless [41].
   The approach and the system prototype used in our research is the autonomous program
improvement agent AutoCodeRover [46],[35]. The work of AutoCodeRover shows that natural
language specifications such as GitHub issue reports are sufficient for driving an autonomous agent
to fix bugs or add features. AutoCodeRover coordinates a group of agents to achieve context

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2024.
Fixing Security Vulnerabilities with AI in OSS-Fuzz                                                                                                     5




                                                Buggy locations
                        Context Retrieval                              Patch Generation


                                                         Candidate
                                                           patch
      Codebase

                                                                                                        Yes           Yes
                                            Candidate
                          Reproducer        reproducer    Patch/Reproduce          Review    No                 No                 No
                                                                                                   Can retry          Can retry         Workflow Ends
                          Generation                          Review               passed?        generation?         main loop?

      Issue report                                                                 Yes




        Input
                                                                                                                     Final patch
                                                               Main Loop




Fig. 2. Workflow of AutoCodeRover for resolving GitHub issues. Dotted lines are back edges in the workflow.


retrieval, following which a patch writer (known as Patch Agent) will produce the final patch. If a
test suite is available, AutoCodeRover will execute the test suite to validate whether the proposed
patch satisfies the test suite. When tests are not available, AutoCodeRover employs a Test Agent to
construct a test case reproducing the issue. By delegating specific tasks to dedicated agents within
the workflow, the system can efficiently utilize LLMs’ strengths in natural language understanding
and code generation.
   Significance. Repairing vulnerabilities detected by fuzzing is vital for enhancing software
security and reliability, as evidenced by the efforts from both software engineering research [6, 11,
45] and industry [23]. According to a recent study by Mei et al. [27], the number of vulnerabilities
identified by OSS-Fuzz is growing steadily despite the gap between reproducible vulnerabilities
and their fixes, posing a significant security risk. Furthermore, the rising number of unpatched
vulnerabilities over time implies that some vulnerabilities might not receive immediate attention.
Therefore, it is essential to propose reliable solutions for vulnerability remediation.

3     CodeRover-S
To study whether LLM agents for general software engineering tasks can be specialized for vulner-
ability remediation, we adapted the open-source agent AutoCodeRover for security vulnerability
repair. In this section, we first provide an overview of AutoCodeRover, and subsequently discuss
how we repurposed it for vulnerability repair.

3.1     Overview of AutoCodeRover
AutoCodeRover [46] is an LLM agent designed for software engineering tasks like bug fixing and
feature addition. It aims to resolve software engineering issues in a realistic setup, where only a
natural-language description of the issue/requirement is available. One such setup is GitHub issues,
in which users submit bug reports or feature addition requests to a software project.
   Figure 2 illustrates the workflow of AutoCodeRover in resolving GitHub issues. Given a
codebase C and a natural-language (NL) issue report R, AutoCodeRover autonomously produces
a patch that aims to resolve the issue described in R. From the issue report R, AutoCodeRover
begins the main loop with context retrieval and reproducer generation. Since an issue typically only
contains NL descriptions and no executable test to reproduce the issue, AutoCodeRover first
attempts to generate a candidate reproducer test for the given issue. This reproducer test serves
as an additional specification for the patch generation later on. Other than the reproducer test,

                                                                                  , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2024.
6                                                                                                                               Zhang et al.



                                                               AddressSanitizer Report
                                                               ==24==ERROR: AddressSanitizer: heap-buffer-overflow on address
                                                               0x60e000000293 ...
                                                               READ of size 1 at 0x60e000000293 thread T0
                                                               #0 0xe7763d in q_memchr src/core/parser/../ut.h:422:7
                                                               #1 0xe771e8 in parse_quoted_param src/core/parser/parse_param.c:305:14
                                                               #2 0xe7175a in parse_param_body src/core/parser/parse_param.c:450:6
                                                               #3 0xe6b2d8 in parse_param2 src/core/parser/parse_param.c:496:13
                                                               #4 0xe6d274 in parse_params2 src/core/parser/parse_param.c:599:10
                                                               #5 0xe6ce56 in parse_params src/core/parser/parse_param.c:561:9
                                                               #6 0xeb16b2 in parse_contacts src/core/parser/contact/contact.c:243:8
                                                               #7 0xe4a638 in contact_parser src/core/parser/contact/parse_contact.c:55:7
                                                               #8 0xe49405 in parse_contact src/core/parser/contact/parse_contact.c:84:6
                                                               #9 0x87e4f4 in parse_contact_header src/core/select_core.c:234:9
                                                               ...


              (a) An example GitHub issue.1                   (b) Example of sanitizer report for Kamailio-380652 .

                       Fig. 3. Examples of GitHub issues and sanitizer-generated reports.



AutoCodeRover also starts the context retrieval stage from the issue report R. The goal of context
retrieval is to extract code snippets relevant to the issue R from a large codebase, enabling the
LLM to better understand the issue in relation to the code. AutoCodeRover performs context
retrieval by designing a set of program structure-aware search APIs, and allowing the LLM to
interact with a local codebase through these APIs. Specifically, AutoCodeRover provides a set
of API specifications such as search_class(...), search_method_in_class(...), etc., to the
LLM. The LLM is instructed to invoke some of these APIs with appropriate arguments based on
what is described in the issue report R. For example, given the example issue shown in Figure 3a,
the LLM would likely invoke the API search_class("Colorbar") to obtain more context about
this class. Upon receiving such an API request, the backend of AutoCodeRover searches for the
actual code/signature of the class Colorbar from an Abstract Syntax Tree (AST) representation
of the codebase, and returns the code/signature back to the LLM. This process of invoking search
APIs and enriching code context happens iteratively, until the LLM deems that the current code
context is sufficient for understanding the issue. At the end of the context retrieval stage, the LLM
decides on a few buggy locations from the current code context. These buggy locations are provided
to a patch generation module to craft candidate patches that aim to resolve the issue.
   After a candidate patch is generated, AutoCodeRover attempts to examine whether it resolves
the issue in a review module. If the patch is deemed to resolve the issue, the workflow ends with it
being the final patch. Otherwise, a natural-language “suggestion” on how to improve the current
patch is sent back to the patch generation module to iteratively improve the patch. A natural
way to decide whether a patch resolves the issue is to execute the reproducer test on the patched
program. The review module in AutoCodeRover takes in both the generated candidate patch and
test, execute them, and decide on (1) whether the test successfully reproduce the issue, and (2)
whether the patch successfully resolves the issue. Both the test and patch are subject to iterative
refinement since both of them are generated by the LLM and can be incorrect. If no acceptable
patches were generated after several rounds of review, AutoCodeRover goes back to the context
retrieval stage to re-discover buggy locations and a new set of patches. This process continues up
to a pre-defined number of rounds.

1 Issue #22864 from the matplotlib project. https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/issues/22864
2 Bug #38065 from the Kamalio project, detected by OSS-Fuzz. https://bugs.chromium.org/p/oss-fuzz/issues/detail?id=38065



, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2024.
Fixing Security Vulnerabilities with AI in OSS-Fuzz                                                                                                       7




                                                  Buggy locations
                              Context Retrieval                          Patch Generation
         Codebase

                                                       Candidate
                                                         patch

                                                                                                          Yes           Yes
          Sanitizer
         bug report
                                                                                     Review    No    Can retry
                                                                                                                  No    Can retry
                                                                                                                                     No
                                                            Patch Review                                                                  Workflow Ends
                                                                                     passed?        generation?         main loop?

                                                                                     Yes



        Exploit input

           Input                                                    Main Loop                                          Final patch




                        Fig. 4. Workflow of CodeRover-S for repairing security vulnerabilities.


3.2   CodeRover-S for Security Vulnerability Repair
The AutoCodeRover workflow presented in Section 3.1 is designed for resolving software engineer-
ing issues with natural language descriptions. We next discuss the adaptation of AutoCodeRover
into the context of repairing vulnerabilities detected by fuzzing campaigns such as in OSS-Fuzz. This
adaptation results in an LLM agent for security vulnerability repair, which we call CodeRover-S.
   We observe two main differences between the scenario of resolving GitHub issues and repairing
vulnerabilities detected by fuzzers:
   (1) Although GitHub issues sometimes contain steps to reproduce, these steps are usually pro-
       vided by the user and may not be fully executable in the environment where the repair
       workflow is run. Therefore, agents targeting GitHub issues often employ an LLM to extract
       an executable reproducer test from the issue report. In contrast, vulnerabilities detected by
       fuzzing always come with a Proof-of-Vulnerability exploit input. This exploit input is gener-
       ated by the fuzzer to prove the existence of the vulnerability, and can be used to reproduce
       the vulnerability in the fuzzing environment (assuming the vulnerability has been confirmed
       and is not flaky).
   (2) GitHub issue reports are usually human-written and contain natural-language descriptions of
       the issue. These natural language descriptions typically cover the program components that
       are related to the issues and some additional details, as shown in the example in Figure 3a.
       In contrast, vulnerabilities found by fuzzers usually come with a bug report generated by
       sanitizers such as AddressSanitizer. An example of sanitizer-generated report is shown in
       Figure 3b. These auto-generated vulnerability reports contain the error type and a stack
       trace of executing the exploit input, but does not contain more elaborated natural language
       description of the root cause.
   Based on these observations, we propose CodeRover-S, an LLM agent built on top of Au-
toCodeRover but tailored for security vulnerability repair. Figure 4 presents the workflow of
CodeRover-S for repairing vulnerabilities found by fuzzing. Compared to AutoCodeRover,
CodeRover-S additionally takes in the fuzzer-generated exploit input, and uses this input for
candidate patch validation within the workflow. Since the exploit input can reliably reproduce the
vulnerability (c.f. Observation (1)), CodeRover-S does not attempt to generate reproducer inputs
from the bug report. This exploit input is used during the Patch Review stage, in which the exploit
input is executed against the generated candidate patches to examine whether the patches can
resolve the crash from the exploit input. Similar to AutoCodeRover, if a candidate patch does
not pass the review, CodeRover-S iteratively refines the generated patch until a pre-defined limit

                                                                                   , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2024.
8                                                                                        Zhang et al.


of retries is reached. In contrast to AutoCodeRover where the review judges the correctness of
both test and patch, the review stage in CodeRover-S assumes the test is correct and examines
the patch correctness based on the test execution result. The rest of the workflow follows that
of AutoCodeRover: if the candidate patch is rejected at the review stage, retries will happen at
both the patch generation and context retrieval level, depending on the pre-defined retry limits.
CodeRover-S will output a final patch if the patch passes the review stage, or output the best patch
so far (based on heuristics such as whether the patch can be compiled) if no patches have passed
the review.
   We now elaborate in the next subsection, how to tackle the challenge of creating security patches
from sanitizer reports.

3.3    Vulnerability Repair from Sanitizer Report
In addition to adapting the agent workflow to security vulnerability repair, another challenge
is to augment the bug report since the auto-generated report contains limited information (c.f.
Observation (2)). Auto-generated bug reports from fuzzing are typically the output from sanitizers
when executing the exploit input on the buggy program. Security sanitizers instrument the original
program, and turns buggy executions that exhibit certain types of vulnerabilities into program
crashes. For example, AddressSanitizer [16] and UndefinedBehaviorSanitizer [39] are widely used
sanitizers that turn memory errors and undefined behaviors into crashes.
   Figure 3b shows an example of bug report generated by AddressSanitizer for a vulnerability found
by OSS-Fuzz in the Kamailo project. The sanitizer report includes the bug type (e.g. heap-buffer-
overflow) and the stack trace when the crash happens. Though the bug type captures the requirement
for the agent (i.e. “fix the heap-buffer-overflow in the program”), the crashing stack trace may not
provide sufficient context for the agent to perform context retrieval. Agents like AutoCodeRover
and CodeRover-S explore the codebase and extract the code context based on the information in the
issue/bug report. They may invoke search APIs such as search_method_in_file(...) to initiate
the context retrieval process and progressively search for other code elements as needed. However,
the sanitizer report only includes the lines and functions in the crash stack trace, which is only a
small part of the entire execution and may not serve as a good starting point for context retrieval.
For example, the bug Kamailio-38065 shown in Figure 3b was patched by the developer with the
changes shown in Figure 5. The developer patch modifies the skip_name function, which does not
appear in the stack trace but is invoked in other parts of the execution. It could be challenging
for the agent to use the sanitizer report as the starting point of context retrieval and navigate
to this function in the codebase. This may restrict the retrieved context and affect the quality of
the final patch. To address the challenge of limited information in the sanitizer report, we enrich
the auto-generated report with additional context of the buggy execution. Specifically, we take
advantage of the available exploit input, and generate a dynamic call graph from the execution of
the exploit input. This dynamic call graph is used to augment the sanitizer report and provides
more contextual information for the agent to navigate the codebase.
   Dynamic Call Graph Construction. To construct a dynamic call graph from the buggy execution,
we instrument the buggy program during compile time to insert hooks at every function entry
and exit points. These hooks record the memory addresses of the functions, as well as the calling
relationships between callers and callees. The instrumented program is then executed with the
exploit input to trigger the vulnerability. During the execution, the function entry/exit hooks log
an edge list comprising pairs of function call addresses. Following this procedure, we map the
memory addresses to their original function names and source code locations (e.g. filename and line
3 https://github.com/kamailio/kamailio/commit/20db418f1e35f31d7a90d7cabbd22ae989b7266c



, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2024.
Fixing Security Vulnerabilities with AI in OSS-Fuzz                                                                                        9


              1   index 8 c6ebdd6bb . . 3 4 5 1 6 7 0 2 2 f 100644
              2   −−− a / s r c / c o r e / p a r s e r / c o n t a c t / c o n t a c t . c
              3   +++ b / s r c / c o r e / p a r s e r / c o n t a c t / c o n t a c t . c
              4   @@ − 1 4 7 , 1 0 + 1 4 7 , 1 0 @@ s t a t i c i n l i n e i n t skip_name ( s t r ∗ _ s )
              5         return 0;
              6         }
              7   − i f ( ∗ p == ' : ' ) {
              8   + i f ( ∗ p == ' : ' | | ∗ p == ' ; ' ) {
              9          i f ( last_wsp ) {
             10   −              _s −> s = l a s t _ w s p ;
             11                  _ s −> l e n −= l a s t _ w s p − _s −> s + 1 ;
             12   +              _s −> s = l a s t _ w s p ;
             13         }
             14         return 0;
             15     }



                                 Fig. 5. The developer’s patch for fixing Kamailio-38065.3


                             parse contact header                               skip name

                                   parse contact                              trim trailling

                                  contact parser                                  skip uri           trim trailling

                                  parse contacts                                     trim

                                   parse params                                trim leading              trim trailling

                                  parse params2
                                                                               trim leading


Fig. 6. An example of enhancing the bug report using a dynamical call graph. The dashed lines represent the
order of function calls on stack trace and the solid lines augment them to show the actual dynamical call
graph. The red colored function call is the fix location selected by the developer.


number). In practice, we utilize addr2line [13], gdb [14], and nm [15] to accomplish such mappings.
Since the call graph size of real software project executions can be substantial, we performed the
following post-processing to enhance the clarity of the information extracted from call graph:
• Filtering functions: Invocation of standard libraries and internal functions that are not part of the
  codebase were removed, to focus the analysis on functions directly involved in the vulnerability.
  For example, calls to standard C library functions like malloc(), free(), and memcpy(), or
  logging functions such as log_debug(), were filtered out.
• Demangling function Names: For languages that utilize name mangling (e.g. C++), the function
  names were de-mangled to the original, human readable identifiers in the source code. For
  example, the name _ZL28demangling_terminate_handlerv would be de-mangled to
  demangling_terminate_handler.
  Figure 6 shows an example of the constructed dynamic call graph for the bug Kamailo-38065.
The red and blue-colored function calls display the part of the dynamic call graph beyond the
crash stack trace. These function calls serve as additional starting points for the agent to explore
the codebase. To make the call graph available to the LLM, we concatenate the list of additional
function calls to the sanitizer bug report as “other functions executed by the bug-triggering input”.
The functions invoked closer to the crash location are presented earlier in this list. The additional

                                                                                  , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2024.
10                                                                                                                    Zhang et al.


              Repair Prompt
              To ensure the patch is compilable, please use only existing variables at the specified bug locations.
              Here’s a list of available variables and their types:
              ...
              variables in method: parse_param_body
              Variables declarations:
              - name: p , type: param_t*
                     typedef: param_t originaltype:struct param ...
              - name: _s , type: str*
                     typedef: str original_type:* json_key
                     ...
              - name: separator , type: char
              - name: _c , type: pclass_t
                     typedef: pclass_t original_type:enum pclass ...
             When writing your patch, make sure to:
             1. Use variables in a way that’s consistent with their types.
              2. Do not introduce imaginary variables that do not exist within the existing code snippet or
              the provided context.
             Write a patch for the vulnerability, based on the relevant code context. First explain the reasoning,
              and then write the actual patch. When writing the patch, remember the following:
             - You do not have to modify every location provided - just make the necessary changes.
             - Other than the vulnerability to fix, your patch should preserve the program functionality as
              much as possible. ...


                           Fig. 7. Augmented repair prompt using context information.



list of function calls enriches the auto-generated bug report from sanitizers, and provides more
context for code retrieval in CodeRover-S.

3.4    Type-assisted Patch Generation
The context retrieval stage of CodeRover-S outputs a list of buggy locations (e.g. functions). With
the code snippets at the buggy program locations, the patch generation stage attempts to craft
patches that fixes the vulnerability. However, a generated patch may not be always compilable. This
is because the code of the buggy function itself may not contain the necessary patch ingredient. For
example, if the type definition of a struct variable s is not within the buggy function, the LLM may
hallucinate some field names of s and use those names in the patch, which will make the patch
not compilable. A straightforward solution is to provide the entire file content around the buggy
functions to the LLM. However, code files can be large in real-world C/C++ projects, and may not
fit in the context window of the LLM. Even if the entire file fits within the context window, the
relevant type definitions might be absent, as they could be defined in separate header files.
   To ensure the relevant context is present for patch generation, we introduce a type-assisted patch
generation prompt that includes all existing variables and their types in the scope of the buggy
function. To compose such a prompt, we parse the C/C++ source files to capture important language
constructs such as structs, classes, typedefs, and enums. Using this information, we construct a
type graph representing the relationships between types and variables. This step handles complex
type relationships, including type aliases through typedefs, while maintaining information about
structs, unions, and enums. This constructed type graph is added to the patch generation prompt
so that the LLM can refer to these type information when writing a patch, thereby improving the

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2024.
Fixing Security Vulnerabilities with AI in OSS-Fuzz                                                            11


compilation rate of the patches. An example patch generation prompt for the example vulnerability
Kamailio-38065 is shown in Figure 7.

3.5    Language-specific Features
Since the original AutoCodeRover was implemented for resolving GitHub issues in Python
repositories, we implemented additional support for C/C++ projects in CodeRover-S.
  Parsing of C/C++ code. AutoCodeRover and CodeRover-S parse the project source code into an
AST to facilitate future code retrieval from the search APIs. We implemented the parsing of C/C++
source files for the search index of CodeRover-S using tree-sitter 4 . To improve the search accuracy
for identifying entities such as functions and structures, we process the standard C/C++ code
patterns and some uncommon ones, such as function definitions through macros and structures
defined via typedefs.
   Search APIs. We also modify the search API in CodeRover-S to explore the codebase with a
higher success rate. One notable feature of C/C++ is forward declarations, i.e., defining a function
or class without providing an implementation for it. This leads to implementations scattered across
the codebase. To handle this, we constrain the search API by removing tools that may confuse the
model when the search is unsuccessful, such as seach_class_in_file. Furthermore, the stack
trace in the sanitizer report does not contain information about the structure of qualified identifiers
in C++. For example, there can be a method identifier of the form A::B, but it is unclear whether A
refers to a class or a namespace. To handle this, we modify the search functionality to search across
namespaces, classes, and structures when searching for a method containing such an identifier.

4     Evaluation
To study the effectiveness of automated tools in real-world vulnerability remediation, we evaluate
various systems on real vulnerabilities detected by OSS-Fuzz. We aim to examine the efficacy
of LLM agents and learning-based vulnerability repair systems in a realistic vulnerability repair
scenario. Specifically, we would like to answer the following research questions:
• RQ1: What is the efficacy of CodeRover-S in repairing real-world security vulnerabilities
  compared to other tools?
• RQ2: What are the strength and weakness of CodeRover-S in vulnerability repair?
• RQ3: What are the suitable metrics for patch evaluation in security vulnerability repair?
   Benchmark Selection. To study the effectiveness in repairing vulnerabilities detected by OSS-
Fuzz, we utilize the recently introduced reproducible benchmark dataset, ARVO [27]. The ARVO
dataset contains 5,001 C/C++ vulnerabilities detected by OSS-Fuzz across 273 projects, and each
vulnerability comes with an environment to rebuild the buggy project and a bug-triggering exploit
input. Since a large number of vulnerabilities have been discovered by OSS-Fuzz in the past years
and are contained in the ARVO dataset, we employ a widely adopted sampling strategy [3] to
construct a subset of vulnerabilities as our dataset.
   Specifically, we use the 5,001 vulnerabilities in the ARVO dataset as the population, and apply a
sampling method to create a representative subset. After applying a sampling methodology with a
99% confidence level and a margin of error of 5%, we select an initial subset of 588 bug samples for
further in-depth analysis. From the initial subset, we repeatedly filter out bugs based on the following
criteria and re-sampled more bugs to eventually obtain a final subset of 588 vulnerabilities: (1) the
reported vulnerability should be reproducible in our experiment environment; (2) the compilation
4 https://tree-sitter.github.io/tree-sitter/



                                                       , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2024.
12                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Zhang et al.


time of the buggy project should be under 15 minutes. This is to ensure the builds during the
repair/validation process can finish within a reasonable time.
  Figure 8 presents the distribution of vulnerabilities in our dataset based on the year and CWE
type they were detected. The most common CWE type are buffer overflows (CWE-121 heap-
based overflow and CWE-122 stack-based overflow), segmentation faults (CWE-476), use-after-free
(CWE-416), and use of uninitialized value (CWE-457).


                                                                                                            250
                                                                                                                        244
          140
                                                                  138

          120                                                                                               200
                                                                                   108
          100                                               91
                                                                                                   Number
                                                                             80                             150
 Number




           80
                                                                                                                                   105
                                        59        57                                                        100
           60
                                                                                                                                              67
                                                                                                                                                        55
           40                 30                                                              24             50
                                                                                                                                                                  47
           20                                                                                                                                                               20         12            12        11        9         5
                     1                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1
            0                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                        1



                                                                                                                                   6



                                                                                                                                              2



                                                                                                                                                        6



                                                                                                                                                                  7



                                                                                                                                                                            5



                                                                                                                                                                                       6


                                                                                                                                                                                                 20



                                                                                                                                                                                                               0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                       12



                                                                                                                                 47



                                                                                                                                            12



                                                                                                                                                       41



                                                                                                                                                                 45



                                                                                                                                                                           12



                                                                                                                                                                                     62




                                                                                                                                                                                                           12



                                                                                                                                                                                                                        41



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  59



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            77
                 16


                          17


                                    18


                                              19


                                                        20


                                                                  21


                                                                         22


                                                                                   23


                                                                                          24




                                                                                                                                                                                                E−
                                                                                                                   E−



                                                                                                                              E−



                                                                                                                                         E−



                                                                                                                                                   E−



                                                                                                                                                             E−



                                                                                                                                                                       E−



                                                                                                                                                                                 E−




                                                                                                                                                                                                          E−



                                                                                                                                                                                                                    E−



                                                                                                                                                                                                                              E−



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        E−
                20


                         20


                                   20


                                             20


                                                       20


                                                                 20


                                                                        20


                                                                                  20


                                                                                         20




                                                                                                                                                                                            W
                                                                                                                   W



                                                                                                                             W



                                                                                                                                        W



                                                                                                                                                   W



                                                                                                                                                             W



                                                                                                                                                                       W



                                                                                                                                                                                 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                       W



                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W



                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W
                                                                                                                                                                                            C
                                                                                                                  C



                                                                                                                            C



                                                                                                                                       C



                                                                                                                                                  C



                                                                                                                                                            C



                                                                                                                                                                      C



                                                                                                                                                                                C




                                                                                                                                                                                                      C



                                                                                                                                                                                                                   C



                                                                                                                                                                                                                             C



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       C
                                                                                                                                                                                 CWE




                                             Fig. 8. The number of bugs detected by years and CWEs, respectively.


   Baseline tools. We compare the efficacy of CodeRover-S with two baseline tools:
(1) Agentless [41]: Agentless is the state-of-the-art LLM-based agentic system designed for
    general-purpose software engineering tasks, as of August 2024 [29]. Agentless employs a fixed
    two-phase workflow of localization and repair. The localization phase happens on multiple
    granularities, such as classes, methods, and file names. The repair phase generates multiple
    patches at the identified fix locations, and a patch selection process is employed to pick the
    final patch. Agentless was originally designed for Python codebases. To use Agentless for
    the C/C++ projects in OSS-Fuzz, we have re-implemented the project structure generation,
    class/function parsing, and edit location mapping for C/C++. Moreover, some prompts are
    adjusted from Python filenames or Python code snippet to that of C/C++. We use the sanitizer-
    generated bug report for each vulnerability as its input. For patch selection, since there is an
    exploit input available for each vulnerability, we use the following rule to select the final patch:
    A plausible patch is strictly preferred to implausible one, and an implausible patch is strictly
    preferred to the one with compilation issue. If there are multiple plausible patches, the first one is
    picked as the final patch.
(2) VulMaster [47]: VulMaster is a learning-based vulnerability repair tool. VulMaster fine-
    tunes a CodeT5 model using vulnerability repair data such as CWE identifiers, vulnerability
    descriptions, exemplar repairs and the vulnerable program fragment to be repaired. The output
    of VulMaster is the repaired version of the vulnerable fragment. Learning-based vulnerability
    repair tools like VulMaster usually assume perfect localization where the vulnerable program
    statement/expression is given. They require the input program fragment to mark the to-be-fixed
    statement/expression with two special tokens <start-vul> and <end-vul>. To use VulMas-
    ter in a realistic vulnerability repair scenario, we employ the standard Spectrum-based Fault
    Localization (SBFL) to obtain a few candidate fix locations, and run VulMaster over these
    locations. This SBFL process takes in the exploit input as the failing test, and other non-crashing
    inputs generated from the OSS-Fuzz fuzzing campaign as the passing tests, and computes a list
    of suspicious locations using the Ochiai metric [1]. We use the top-five suspicious locations
    (line-level) from SBFL as the fix locations, and use VulMaster to generate a patch at each

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2024.
Fixing Security Vulnerabilities with AI in OSS-Fuzz                                                                      13


    of these locations. Since the trained model of VulMaster is not publicly released, we follow
    the same procedure to finetune the CodeT5 model using the same training dataset used in the
    original paper. Since there are multiple patches produced (one at each location), we select the
    final patch by following the same process as that in Agentless (i.e. always select the plausible
    patches first).
   For each vulnerability in the setup, the inputs to CodeRover-S and Agentless are:
(1) An exploit input that triggers the vulnerability.
(2) The sanitizer-generated bug report for this vulnerability. This is obtained by executing the
    exploit input on the program built with sanitizers.
   For VulMaster, we follow its original setup [47] and give it the following inputs:
(1) CWE identifier extracted from the sanitizer-generated report.
(2) A few exemplar fixes for the corresponding CWE type, extracted from the CVEFixes dataset [4].
(3) The function containing the fix location identified from SBFL.
   Tool Setup. For agent systems (CodeRover-S and Agentless) used in our evaluation, we used the
OpenAI gpt-4o-2024-08-06 as the backend LLM. We set the model temperature to 0.2, following
previous works [46]. For CodeRover-S, we set the maximum rounds of main loop to be 3, following
the same experimental setup in [35].
   We evaluate the final patch generated by a tool by applying it to the buggy program, compiling
the patched program, and executing the exploit input on the patched program. We then classify
the patches into the following categories: (1) No Patch (NP): A patch is not generated by the tool.
(2) Compilation error (CE): A patch is generated, but caused compilation errors when building
the program. (3) Implausible (IP): The generated patch compiles without errors, but the original
exploit input still triggers the vulnerability. (4) Plausible (P): The patch compiles successfully, and
the original exploit input can no longer trigger the bug.

4.1   RQ1: Repair Efficacy of Various Tools
In this research question, we aim to evaluate the capabilities of the LLM- and learning-based repair
systems in repairing vulnerabilities detected by OSS-Fuzz in real-world projects.



                                                       30.9%
           52.6%                P (309)                                  P (182)                                    P(1)
                                IP (209)                                                   63.6%           5.8%
                                                                         IP (290)                                   IP(34)
                                CE (30)                                                                     0.2%    CE(374)
                       6.8%                    49.3%                     CE (68)
                                NP (40)                        8.2%      NP (48)                                    NP(179)
         35.5%        5.1%                                                                         30.4%
                                                         11.6%



       CodeRover-S                               Agentless                                 VulMaster


                   Fig. 9. Comparison of results from CodeRover-S, Agentless and VulMaster.

   Results. The pie charts in Figure 9 provide a comparative analysis of the patches for the three
systems: CodeRover-S, Agentless and VulMaster, respectively. All three charts categorize
patches based on the aforementioned criteria, which are plausible (P), implausible (IP), compilation
errors (CE), and No Patch (NP). As can be seen from the left figure, CodeRover-S generated plausible
patches for over half (52.6%) of the vulnerabilities, showing the potential of CodeRover-S being
used in real-world vulnerability remediation. For the other 35% of the vulnerabilities, CodeRover-S

                                                                 , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2024.
14                                                                                                                  Zhang et al.


generated compilable but implausible patches. The non-compilable patches account for a low
percentage of the dataset (5.1%), suggesting that the LLM can generated compilable patches to a
large extent if it is given sufficient code context and type information. For the remaining 6.8% of the
bugs, CodeRover-S did not generate a patch due to errors in the code search or other exceptions
happened during the execution.
   In comparison, the results from Agentless demonstrate that 49.3% of the patches are implausible,
which is higher than that from CodeRover-S. In addition, 30.9% of the patches are plausible (P),
which is substantially lower than the plausible patch rate in CodeRover-S. Furthermore, 11.6%
(68) of the patches result in compilation errors (CE), another clearly higher percentage compared
to CodeRover-S. Lastly, for the remaining 8.2% of bugs, Agentless fails to produce a patch. In a
nutshell, we observe that CodeRover-S achieves better efficacy than Agentless in all categories.
To some extent, this is expected since CodeRover-S is targeted for security patching.
   Unlike the agent systems that generated plausible patches for around 30-50% of the vulnerabilities,
VulMaster could not generate plausible patches for most of the vulnerabilities. The results from
VulMaster demonstrate that 63.6% of the bugs do not have a compilable patch, the highest of all
tools. In addition, 30.4% of the bugs do not have a patch that can be applied to the program. Only 5.8%
of the subjects have an implausible patch. Finally, there is a single plausible patch, which is a function
call removal. This suggests that VulMaster is not
capable of generating plausible patches in realistic
repair setups like OSS-Fuzz vulnerability remedia-
tion.                                                          39 143 165                  Agentless
   Furthermore, we examine to what extent plau-                    0 10                    CodeRover-S
sible patches generated from the tools overlap. As                                         VulMaster
seen in Figure 10, the overlap between CodeRover-                     0
S and Agentless is significant, with most of the
patches (78.6%) found by Agentless also present in
that of CodeRover-S. In summary, CodeRover-S Fig. 10. The Venn diagram for plausible patches
demonstrates more consistency in producing plausi- from the three tools.
ble patches with fewer compilation errors, making it more reliable for generating useful security
patches.

4.2     RQ2: Further Analysis of CodeRover-S Results


            CWE        # Samples    Name                                                   CodeRover-S   Agentless
            CWE-121    244          Stack-based Buffer Overflow                            140 (57%)     77 (32%)
            CWE-476    105          NULL Pointer Dereference                               42 (40%)      16 (15%)
            CWE-122    67           Heap-based Buffer Overflow                             46 (69%)      32 (48%)
            CWE-416    55           Use After Free                                         19 (35%)      15 (27%)
            CWE-457    47           Use of Uninitialized Variable                          16 (34%)      15 (32%)
            CWE-125    20           Out-of-bounds Read                                     18 (90%)      13 (65%)
            CWE-20     12           Improper Input Validation                              8 (67%)       6 (50%)
            CWE-626    12           Null Byte Interaction Error                            6 (50%)       2 (17%)
            CWE-120    11           Buffer Copy without Checking Size of Input             7 (64%)       4 (36%)
            CWE-415    9            Double Free                                            4 (44%)       2 (22%)
            CWE-590    5            Free of Memory not on the Heap                         3 (67%)       0 (0%)
            CWE-770    1            Allocation of Resources Without Limits or Throttling   0 (0%)        0 (0%)
                          Table 1. Analysis of plausible patches according to CWE Type.



     In this section, we provide further analysis of patches generated by CodeRover-S.

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2024.
Fixing Security Vulnerabilities with AI in OSS-Fuzz                                                                            15


  Year                   # Samples   CodeRover-S      Agentless
  2016                      1          1 (100%)        1 (100%)                                  Time (mins)     Cost (USD)
  2017                     30          15 (50%)        12 (40%)              No Patch            8.25 (8.53)     1.65 (1.63)
  2018                     59          27 (46%)        17 (28%)              Compilation issue   44.58 (33.38)   0.78 (0.63)
  2019                     57          30 (53%)        10 (18%)              Implausible         75.32 (51.88)   1.53 (1.37)
  2020                     91          48 (53%)        34 (37%)              Plausible           23.23 (11.86)   0.51 (0.26)
  2021                     138         75 (54%)        45 (33%)
  2022                     80          44 (55%)        21 (26%)              All patches         43.5 (24.83)    0.93 (0.69)
  2023 (Up-to-October)     86          43 (50%)        23 (27%)
  2023 (Post-October)      22          11 (50%)         8 (36%)           Table 3. The mean and median for execu-
  2024                     24          15 (63%)        11 (46%)
                                                                          tion time and costs. Data in each cell are in
Table 2. Analysis of plausible patches according to the year              the format of “mean (median)”.
of bug detection.




   Fix rate across different categories. For the vulnerabilities that CodeRover-S can find a plausible
patch, we further examine how they are distributed across different bug types and years. Table 1
provides a breakdown of the plausible patch rate by the CWE types. CodeRover-S performs
better on buffer-related vulnerabilities, specifically CWE-121, CWE-122, and CWE-125, on which
CodeRover-S achieved fix rates of 57%, 69% and 90% respectively. These success rates suggest
that CodeRover-S is adept at patching buffer-overflow and bounds-checking issues, which usually
have well-defined patterns and remediation strategies. In contrast, CodeRover-S struggles with
other memory management-related vulnerabilities such as CWE-416 and CWE-457, where the
fix rates drop to 35% and 34% respectively. These lower success rates may be attributed to the
context-dependent nature of these vulnerabilities, as uninitialized variables and use-after-free may
require a deeper semantic understanding of the program and the relationship between various
variables, which could be a challenge for automated tools.
   Table 2 presents the yearly distribution of CodeRover-S’s plausible patch rates against the year
of bug discovery, from 2016 to 2024. The analysis reveals that CodeRover-S’s efficacy fluctuates
within the range of 46% to 63% across vulnerabilities detected in different years (with 2016 being
the outlier with only one vulnerability). We further split the vulnerabilities detected in 2023 to
“Up-to-October” and “Post-October”, since the underlying gpt-4o-2024-08-06 model used by
CodeRover-S is only trained on data up to October 2023 [30]. Despite the underlying LLM has a
knowledge cutoff date of October 2023, CodeRover-S still achieves similar efficacy in repairing
vulnerabilities detected after October 2023 compared to previous years. Notably, CodeRover-S
achieves a higher efficacy of 63% on vulnerabilities detected in 2024 compared to other years.
CodeRover-S’s effectiveness on vulnerability remediation extends to vulnerabilities whose ground
truth patches are certainly not included in the LLM’s training data.

   Time and cost. We examine the average cost for an execution of CodeRover-S and the average
time needed. The analysis in Table 3 shows the average and median time and cost for CodeRover-
S’s execution across different patch outcomes. For cases where a plausible patch was generated,
the average time was significantly lower (23.23 minutes) compared to cases that resulted in an
implausible (75.32 minutes) or non-compilable patch (44.58 minutes).
   In terms of cost, plausible patches are also the most economical, with an average cost of $0.51
and a median cost of $0.26. In contrast, implausible patches are more costly, averaging $1.53, with a
median of $1.37, while non-compilable patches have an average cost of $0.78 and a median of $0.63.
This indicates that CodeRover-S is more efficient in terms of cost and time when it successfully
generates plausible patches, and this is likely due to fewer retry attempts, since the workflow stops
once a plausible patch has been generated.

                                                                  , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2024.
16                                                                                                              Zhang et al.




                        250
                                222

                        200
No. Plausible Patches




                        150


                        100

                                            51
                         50                              36


                          0
                              Round 1     Round 2      Round 3

(a) Number of bugs whose plausible patch is found                        (b) The heat-map of when the plausible patches are
                      Retry Rounds
in which round of the main loop.                                         found, in more details.

                                        Fig. 11. Distribution of when the plausible patches are found.



   Furthermore, Figure 11 provide insight into the distribution of when the plausible patch for each
vulnerability was found. In our experiments, CodeRover-S is configured to retry at most 6 times
for patch generation and 3 times for the main loop (c.f. Figure 4). Figure 11a shows that most of the
plausible patches are generated in the first round of main loop, with diminishing results in later
rounds. The heat-map in Figure 11b highlights that successful patches are primarily concentrated in
the first few patch generation attempts of each round. While most plausible patches are identified
during the first patching attempt in the initial round, a substantial number of plausible patches are
still generated during the second attempt in both the first and second rounds. This highlights the
effectiveness of the patch review process in refining the initial implausible patches. In summary,
both the plausible patch distribution and the time/cost analysis suggests that plausible patches are
usually found at early stages in the CodeRover-S execution. In potential real-world deployments,
users can balance the efficacy and cost of CodeRover-S by establishing appropriate retry limits
and execution timeouts.

4.3                       RQ3: Patch Validation Metric
Other than the plausibility validation by executing tests, BLEU [32] and CodeBLEU [34] has been a
popular metric for evaluating patch quality in AI-based vulnerability repair systems [20, 40, 47].
BLEU score computes n-gram similarity between two input sequences, and CodeBLEU additionally
considers code syntax (via Abstract Syntax Tree, or AST) and semantics (via data-flow) of the two
input code snippets. Both of them were often used to estimate the quality of an auto-generated
patch against the ground truth developer patch in previous studies, especially when executable
tests are not available in the studied benchmark. In this research question, we examine the extent
to which high CodeBLEU scores can predict the actual quality of a patch, including factors like
patch plausibility in vulnerability repair. Therefore, our hypothesis formulation becomes:
• The null hypothesis 𝐻 0 : There is no significant association between CodeBLEU scores and the
  plausibility of code patches.
• Alternative hypothesis 𝐻 1 : Higher CodeBLEU scores are significantly associated with plausi-
  bility of code patches.

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2024.
Fixing Security Vulnerabilities with AI in OSS-Fuzz                                                                    17


   To ensure the CodeBLEU score computation is meaningful, the generated solution and reference
solution (i.e. developer patch) should modify similar locations in the program.
   Furthermore, since the CodeBLEU computation involves parsing the input sequence into AST,
the input sequence should be a parsable code fragment. To this end, we selected 124 vulnerabilities
from the dataset used in RQ1, whose developer patch is single-hunk and is within a function. We
then pass in the developer patch location (which is a function) to CodeRover-S and instruct it
to only generate patches at this location. As a result, we obtain pairs of auto-generated patches
and ground truth patches that only modify the same function. For these 124 vulnerabilities under
perfect localization conditions, CodeRover-S generated 111 compilable patches, of which 86 are
plausible and 25 are implausible. We compute CodeBLEU score for these 111 patches (i.e. 86 + 25)
by extracting the patched functions after applying the auto-generated patch and the developer
patch respectively.




                                   Plausible
                                   Implausible
                               0.4     0.5     0.6       0.7        0.8       0.9       1.0
                                                       Score
                   Fig. 12. Point-Biserial Correlation coefficient is -0.008 and p-value is 0.94.


   To test our hypothesis, we calculated the Point-Biserial correlation coefficient to assess the
strength and direction of the monotonic relationship between the CodeBLEU scores and the
categorical variable of plausibility. We choose this statistical method because the the plausibility of
a patch is dichotomous in our definition.
   Results. First of all, our results indicate no significant difference in the mean CodeBLEU scores
between the implausible and plausible groups. The mean score for implausible patches is 0.878,
and the mean score for plausible patches is 0.873. These scores suggest that CodeBLEU does not
effectively distinguish between plausible and implausible patches in this context. Then, we obtained
a Point-Biserial correlation coefficient of -0.008 with a P-value of 0.94. This indicates that there
is no statistically significant evidence of a linear relationship between CodeBLEU scores and the
plausibility of patches. Specifically, we fail to reject the null hypothesis that no association exists
between CodeBLEU and plausibility at the conventional significance level of 0.05. Furthermore,
as shown in Figure 12, the visualization of the data points reveals that even at lower CodeBLEU
scores, there are many plausible patches, and at higher scores, there is a significant number of
implausible patches. These results indicate that, in the context of vulnerability repair, CodeBLEU
does not reliably capture patch quality. Metrics like patch plausibility should be prioritized when
executable tests are available.

5 Related Works
Automated Program Repair (APR) techniques [18] seek to heal faulty programs by automatically
generating patches for developers. With the advent of AI-based coding, attention on these techniques
have further accentuated. In this section, we describe AI-based repair and program analysis based
repair, both of which are closely aligned with our work.

                                                               , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2024.
18                                                                                           Zhang et al.


5.1    Deep Learning and LLM-based Approach
Various machine learning and deep learning based approaches have been proposed for program
repair in the recent years. The core idea is to model APR as neural machine translation (NMT)
problem. For instance, SequenceR [7] uses neural networks to learn patterns from pairs of buggy
and fixed code, enabling it to generate fixes end-to-end. CoCoNuT [25] combines multiple neural
network models for better representing the context of a bug. Jiang et al. [21] further advance
context-aware learning models by designing CURE. CURE handles the out-of-the-vocabulary
issue and employs a code-aware search strategy (so that only valid identifiers are selected during
inference). Other than the general-purpose repair tools, several systems have been proposed for
repairing security vulnerabilities. VRepair [6] is a vulnerability repair tool that is based on transfer
learning. It is first trained on a large bug fix corpus, and then finetuned on a smaller vulnerability
fix dataset. Instead of training a model and adapting it to vulnerability repair with transfer learning,
VulRepair [10] finetunes a pre-trained CodeT5 model for repairing vulnerabilities. VulMaster [47]
is a recently proposed tool that integrates diverse information such as code structure and expert
knowledge for vulnerability repair, and it is studied in our work.
   In the era of LLMs, researchers have investigated using LLMs for program repair. For example,
ChatRepair [42] proposed a conversational program repair workflow by interacting with ChatGPT.
Recently, various LLM agents have been proposed for autonomous program improvements and
program repair. AutoCodeRover [46] uses a set of program structure aware search APIs for
gathering relevant code context for the problem. SWE-Agent [43] designs an agent-computer
interface which defines the possible actions taken by the agent for code viewing and editing.
Agentless [41] employs a fixed two-phase approach for localization and repair. Agentless is
studied in our work, and our tool CodeRover-S is built on top of AutoCodeRover. In this work,
we present an experience of adapting autonomous agents for vulnerability repair on a large scale
real-world dataset.

5.2    Program Analysis based Approach
A wide range of analysis-based approaches have been explored to repair software vulnerabilities [11,
24, 26, 37, 45]. GenProg [24] is one of the pioneering tools in APR. It uses genetic programming to
evolve program variants and applies mutation and crossover operations to a program’s abstract
syntax tree (AST) to generate candidate patches. Moreover, SemFix by Nguyen et al. [28] combines
symbolic execution with constraint solving to repair programs. It identifies program locations
causing failures and generates patches by solving constraints that represent the desired program
behavior. Gao et al. [11] explore the use of crash-free constraints to bootstrap the repair process.
The work leverages data-dependency localization to identify a precise location within the program’s
control flow graph, ensuring the vulnerability is effectively mitigated. Zhang et al. [45] propose a
counter-example guided inductive inference approach to define likely invariants at potential bug fix
locations in a program. Instead of relying on heavy symbolic analysis, VulnFix investigates using
light-weight input/state generation to verify the candidate invariants, allowing good scalability.
These approaches provide strong correctness guarantees due to the rigorous program analysis
foundations. However, they often suffer from scalability issues, especially with large codebases or
complex software systems. Furthermore, the effort to move from one programming language to
another is high in the analysis based approaches (as compared to LLM agent based approaches).

6     Perspectives
Automated program repair technologies typically involve search, semantic reasoning and machine
learning to automatically rectify bugs and vulnerabilities. Typically such techniques are driven

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2024.
Fixing Security Vulnerabilities with AI in OSS-Fuzz                                                                        19


by a given test-suite as an indicator of correctness, and hence are difficult to apply for security
vulnerabilities where only one test (the exploit) may be available. Recent emergence of Large
Language Models (LLMs) have put the focus on fixing “issues” where natural language bug reports
may be used to produce rectifying program modifications via LLM agents. In this work, we have
demonstrated the feasibility of using a repurposed LLM agent AutoCodeRover [46] for rectify-
ing security vulnerabilities found by continuous fuzzing taken from the widely used OSS-Fuzz
infrastructure [31]. The main experience gained point us to the feasibility of using LLM agents as
back-ends to fuzzers for zero-day patching of security vulnerabilities. Furthermore, such integration
of fuzzers with LLM agents need to come with qualitative or quantitative measures of confidence
in the fidelity of the patch. Recent work [35] have pointed to qualitative measures of confidence
via explanations of patch generated from LLM agents. In future, one may also explore quantitative
measures of confidence in the patch by the agent’s analysis of consistency of the different artifacts
available to it, namely: tests, bug reports, method level specifications and patch candidates.

Data Availability
Our experimental artifacts can be found at
https://github.com/nus-apr/code-rover-s-artifacts.

Acknowledgments
This work is partially supported by the Singapore Ministry of Education (MoE) Tier3 research
grant "Automated Program Repair" MOE-MOET32021-0001. This work is partially supported by
the National Research Foundation, Singapore, and Cyber Security Agency of Singapore under its
National Cybersecurity R&D Programme (Fuzz Testing <NRF-NCR25-Fuzz-0001>). Any opinions,
findings and conclusions, or recommendations expressed in this material are those of the author(s)
and do not reflect the views of Singapore Ministry of Education, National Research Foundation,
Singapore, and Cyber Security Agency of Singapore.

References
 [1] Abreu, R., Zoeteweij, P., and Van Gemund, A. J. An evaluation of similarity coefficients for software fault localization.
     In 2006 12th Pacific Rim International Symposium on Dependable Computing (PRDC’06) (2006), IEEE, pp. 39–46.
 [2] Aizatsky, M., Serebryany, K., Chang, O., Arya, A., and Whittaker, M. Announcing oss-fuzz: Continuous fuzzing
     for open source software. https://testing.googleblog.com/2016/12/announcing-oss-fuzz-continuous-fuzzing.html.
     Accessed: 2024-10-03.
 [3] Baltes, S., and Ralph, P. Sampling in software engineering research: A critical review and guidelines. Empirical
     Software Engineering 27, 4 (2022), 94.
 [4] Bhandari, G., Naseer, A., and Moonen, L. CVEfixes: Automated Collection of Vulnerabilities and Their Fixes from
     Open-Source Software. In Proceedings of the 17th International Conference on Predictive Models and Data Analytics in
     Software Engineering (PROMISE ’21) (2021), ACM, p. 10.
 [5] Böhme, M., Cadar, C., and Roychoudhury, A. Fuzzing: Challenges and reflections. IEEE Software 38, 3 (2021).
 [6] Chen, Z., Kommrusch, S., and Monperrus, M. Neural transfer learning for repairing security vulnerabilities in C
     code. CoRR abs/2104.08308 (2021).
 [7] Chen, Z., Kommrusch, S., Tufano, M., Pouchet, L.-N., Poshyvanyk, D., and Monperrus, M. Sequencer: Sequence-
     to-sequence learning for end-to-end program repair. IEEE Transaction on Software Engineering (2019).
 [8] Chromium. The chromium projects - security bugs. https://www.chromium.org/Home/chromium-security/bugs/.
     Accessed: 2024-10-03.
 [9] Ding, Z. Y., and Le Goues, C. An empirical study of oss-fuzz bugs. In 2021 IEEE/ACM 18th International Conference on
     Mining Software Repositories (MSR) (2021), IEEE, pp. 131–142.
[10] Fu, M., Tantithamthavorn, C., Le, T., Nguyen, V., and Phung, D. Vulrepair: a t5-based automated software
     vulnerability repair. ESEC/FSE 2022, Association for Computing Machinery, p. 935–947.
[11] Gao, X., Wang, B., Duck, G. J., Ji, R., Xiong, Y., and Roychoudhury, A. Beyond tests: Program vulnerability repair
     via crash constraint extraction. ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol. 30, 2 (Feb. 2021).
[12] GitHub. Codeql. https://codeql.github.com/. Accessed: 2024-10-03.

                                                                  , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2024.
20                                                                                                               Zhang et al.


[13] GNU Project. addr2line (GNU Binutils), 2024. Version 2.40.
[14] GNU Project. Gnu debugger (gdb). https://sourceware.org/gdb/, 2024. Accessed: 2024-10-02.
[15] GNU Project. nm - list symbols from object files (gnu binutils). https://linux.die.net/man/1/nm, 2024. Accessed:
     2024-10-02.
[16] Google. Addresssanitizer. https://github.com/google/sanitizers/wiki/AddressSanitizer. Accessed: 2024-10-04.
[17] Google. Memorysanitizer. https://github.com/google/sanitizers/wiki/memorysanitizer. Accessed: 2024-10-04.
[18] Goues, C. L., Pradel, M., and Roychoudhury, A. Automated program repair. Communications of the ACM 62 (2019).
[19] Guo, Z., Tan, T., Liu, S., Liu, X., Lai, W., Yang, Y., Li, Y., Chen, L., Dong, W., and Zhou, Y. Mitigating false positive
     static analysis warnings: Progress, challenges, and opportunities. IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering (2023).
[20] Islam, N. T., Karkevandi, M. B., and Najafirad, P. Code security vulnerability repair using reinforcement learning
     with large language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.07031 (2024).
[21] Jiang, N., Lutellier, T., and Tan, L. Cure: Code-aware neural machine translation for automatic program repair. In
     2021 IEEE/ACM 43rd International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE) (2021), pp. 1161–1173.
[22] Justin Campbell, M. W. Microsoft announces new project onefuzz framework, an open source developer tool to find
     and fix bugs at scale. https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/security/blog/2020/09/15/microsoft-onefuzz-framework-open-
     source-developer-tool-fix-bugs/. Accessed: 2024-10-03.
[23] Keller, J., and Nowakowski, J. Ai-powered patching: the future of automated vulnerability fixes. Tech. rep., 2024.
[24] Le Goues, C., Nguyen, T., Forrest, S., and Weimer, W. Genprog: A generic method for automatic software repair.
     Ieee transactions on software engineering 38, 1 (2011), 54–72.
[25] Lutellier, T., Pham, H. V., Pang, L., Li, Y., Wei, M., and Tan, L. Coconut: combining context-aware neural translation
     models using ensemble for program repair. In Proceedings of the 29th ACM SIGSOFT international symposium on
     software testing and analysis (2020), pp. 101–114.
[26] Mechtaev, S., Yi, J., and Roychoudhury, A. Angelix: Scalable multiline program patch synthesis via symbolic
     analysis. In Proceedings of the 38th international conference on software engineering (2016), pp. 691–701.
[27] Mei, X., Singaria, P. S., Del Castillo, J., Xi, H., Bao, T., Wang, R., Shoshitaishvili, Y., Doupé, A., Pearce, H.,
     Dolan-Gavitt, B., et al. Arvo: Atlas of reproducible vulnerabilities for open source software. arXiv preprint
     arXiv:2408.02153 (2024).
[28] Nguyen, H. D. T., Qi, D., Roychoudhury, A., and Chandra, S. Semfix: Program repair via semantic analysis. In 2013
     35th International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE) (2013), IEEE, pp. 772–781.
[29] OpenAI. Introducing swe-bench verified. https://openai.com/index/introducing-swe-bench-verified/. Accessed:
     2024-10-31.
[30] OpenAI. Models - openai api. https://platform.openai.com/docs/models. Accessed: 2024-10-31.
[31] OSS-Fuzz. Oss-fuzz. https://google.github.io/oss-fuzz/. Accessed: 2024-10-03.
[32] Papineni, K., Roukos, S., Ward, T., and Zhu, W.-J. Bleu: a method for automatic evaluation of machine translation. In
     Proceedings of the 40th annual meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (2002), pp. 311–318.
[33] Project, L. libfuzzer – a library for coverage-guided fuzz testing. https://llvm.org/docs/LibFuzzer.html. Accessed:
     2024-10-03.
[34] Ren, S., Guo, D., Lu, S., Zhou, L., Liu, S., Tang, D., Sundaresan, N., Zhou, M., Blanco, A., and Ma, S. Codebleu: a
     method for automatic evaluation of code synthesis. CoRR abs/2009.10297 (2020).
[35] Ruan, H., Zhang, Y., and Roychoudhury, A. Specrover: Code intent extraction via llms. In International Conference
     on Software Engineering (ICSE), arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.02232 (2025).
[36] Semgrep. Semgrep. https://semgrep.dev/. Accessed: 2024-10-03.
[37] Shariffdeen, R., Noller, Y., Grunske, L., and Roychoudhury, A. Concolic program repair. In Proceedings of the
     42nd ACM SIGPLAN International Conference on Programming Language Design and Implementation (New York, NY,
     USA, 2021), PLDI 2021, Association for Computing Machinery, p. 390–405.
[38] Skybox. Vulnerability & threat trends report 2024, 2024.
[39] Team, T. C. Undefinedbehaviorsanitizer. https://clang.llvm.org/docs/UndefinedBehaviorSanitizer.html. Accessed:
     2024-10-25.
[40] Wang, R., Li, Z., Wang, C., Xiao, Y., and Gao, C. Navrepair: Node-type aware c/c++ code vulnerability repair. arXiv
     preprint arXiv:2405.04994 (2024).
[41] Xia, C. S., Deng, Y., Dunn, S., and Zhang, L. Agentless: Demystifying llm-based software engineering agents, 2024.
[42] Xia, C. S., and Zhang, L. Keep the conversation going: Fixing 162 out of 337 bugs for $0.42 each using chatgpt. arXiv
     preprint arXiv:2304.00385 (2023).
[43] Yang, J., Jimenez, C. E., Wettig, A., Lieret, K., Yao, S., Narasimhan, K., and Press, O. Swe-agent: Agent-computer
     interfaces enable automated software engineering, 2024.
[44] Zalewski, M. Technical "whitepaper" for afl-fuzz. https://lcamtuf.coredump.cx/afl/technical_details.txt. Accessed:
     2024-10-03.


, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2024.
Fixing Security Vulnerabilities with AI in OSS-Fuzz                                                                    21


[45] Zhang, Y., Gao, X., Duck, G. J., and Roychoudhury, A. Program vulnerability repair via inductive inference. In
     Proceedings of the 31st ACM SIGSOFT International Symposium on Software Testing and Analysis (New York, NY, USA,
     2022), ISSTA 2022, Association for Computing Machinery, p. 691–702.
[46] Zhang, Y., Ruan, H., Fan, Z., and Roychoudhury, A. Autocoderover: Autonomous program improvement. In
     Proceedings of the 33rd ACM SIGSOFT International Symposium on Software Testing and Analysis (New York, NY, USA,
     2024), ISSTA 2024, Association for Computing Machinery, p. 1592–1604.
[47] Zhou, X., Kim, K., Xu, B., Han, D., and Lo, D. Out of sight, out of mind: Better automatic vulnerability repair by
     broadening input ranges and sources. In Proceedings of the IEEE/ACM 46th International Conference on Software
     Engineering (New York, NY, USA, 2024), ICSE ’24, Association for Computing Machinery.




                                                               , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2024.
